Attempt to define resolution and dereferencing (#78)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

They MAY update their DID manifest, for instance to refresh their signing keys or algorithms, but they SHOULD NOT remove or change any prior keys unless they intend to revoke all Signed Statements that are registered as Transparent Statements issued with those keys.
This DID appears in the Issuer protected header of Signed Statements' Envelopes, while the version of the key from the manifest used to sign the Signed Statement is written in the `kid` header.

`kid` MUST either be an absolute URL, 
or `iss` MUST also be present in the protected header, 

> and `kid` MUST be a URL relative to `iss`.

Reviewer: How about:
and 'kid' MUST then be a URL relative to `iss`

They MAY update their DID manifest, for instance to refresh their signing keys or algorithms, but they SHOULD NOT remove or change any prior keys unless they intend to revoke all Signed Statements that are registered as Transparent Statements issued with those keys.
This DID appears in the Issuer protected header of Signed Statements' Envelopes, while the version of the key from the manifest used to sign the Signed Statement is written in the `kid` header.

`kid` MUST either be an absolute URL,
or `iss` MUST also be present in the protected header,

> and `kid` MUST be a URL relative to `iss`.

Reviewer 2: Since `iss` seems to be required to be a DID ([this reference?](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture-01#section-6.1-4.2)), would it be clearer to say absolute/relative DID URL?

> `kid` MUST either be an absolute URL,
> or `iss` MUST also be present in the protected header,
> and `kid` MUST be a URL relative to `iss`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`kid` MUST either be an absolute URL,
or a relative URL. Relative URL MUST be
relative to an `iss` value. When relative URL is used,
`iss` MUST also be present in the protected header.
```

I think the requirement conveyed can be clearer.

Reviewer 2: not sure if it should say absolute DID URL and relative DID URL which are terms used in [DID Core](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#relative-did-urls). - depends on the response to a question above.

> Resolving `kid` MUST return an Identity Document of a registered content type (a set of public keys).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resolving `kid` MUST return an identity document of a registered content type (a set of public keys).
```
let's be consistent in capitalization.

In the case of `kid` being an absolute DID URL, the identity document is called a DID Document,

> and is expected ot have content type `application/did+json`.

Reviewer 2: what about relative DID URLs??

also a reference to the definition of relative DID URL in [DID Core](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#relative-did-urls) might be helpful?

Author: I agree, I filed an issue for this: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/issues/81

> Dereferencing a DID URL requires that it first be resolved, and then the fragment processed according to the media type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To dereference a DID URL, it first MUST be resolved. After that the fragment is processed according to the media type.
```

For example, when resolving `did:example:123#key-42`,

> first the identity document for `did:example:123` is resolved as content type `application/did+json`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first, the identity document for `did:example:123` is resolved as content type `application/did+json`,
```

> next, the fragment `#key-2` is dereferenced to a verification method that contains a `publicKeyJwk` property in JSON.

Author: ```suggestion
next, the fragment `#key-2` is dereferenced to a verification method that contains a `publicKeyJwk`.
```

> next, the fragment `#key-2` is dereferenced to a verification method that contains a `publicKeyJwk` property in JSON.

Reviewer 2: `in JSON` here should be removed or made clearer.

Author: agredd, I removed it

> The content type of `publicKeyJwk` is expected to be `application/jwk+json`.

Reviewer 2: why is there a need for a content type for a JWK? JWK is a published RFC and has a clearly defined content/structure

Author: Just being explicit.. and... because resolution and dereferencing are only described in the abstract in did core.

Most of this text would not be needed if DID Core defined resolution and dereferencing more concretely

> The details of both `did resolution` and `did dereferencing` are out of scope for this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The details of both `DID resolution` and `DID dereferencing` are out of scope for this document.
```

The `iss` or `kid`, might not be DID URLs, however the following interfaces MUST be satisfied in order to ensure

> issuer identity documents, and associated keys are discoverable in a consistent manner.

Reviewer 2: I think this should be moved before line 379.

Author: It's definitely a separate issue, the list is currently discussing all the possible ways to identify an organization with public keys... we are pretty sure we want to support DIDs, but we don't know how many other schemes we should support.

> #### Resolving Identity Documents

Reviewer 2: how is this section related to a sentence above `The details of both `did resolution` and `did dereferencing` are out of scope for this document.` should be clearer

Author: Hard to fix, given DID Core doesn't define them either.

Any more specific suggestion here?

The value of `id` might be found the `iss` or `sub` claims if they are present in the protected header or payload.

```
resolve = (id: string, accept: content_type = 'application/did+json') =>
idDocument (of content type application/did+json).
```

For example:

```
did:example:123
```

Might resolve to:

```
{
  "id": "did:example:123",
  "verificationMethod": [{
    "id": "#key-42",
    "type": "JsonWebkey",
    "controller": "did:example:123",
    "publicKeyJwk": {
      "kty": "EC",
      "crv": "P-384",
      "alg": "ES384",
      "x": "LCeAt2sW36j94wuFP0gNEIHDzqR6Nh_Udu2ObLer3cKFBCaAHY1svmbPV69bP3RH",
      "y": "zz2SkcOGYM6PbYlw19tcbpzo6bEMYHIwGBnN5rd8QWykAprstPdxx4U0uScvDcYd"
    }
  }]
}
```

> Editor note, we might wish to eliminate this intermediate identity document content type,

Author: @Sakurann this is related to the conversations we have had on https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#verification-relationships

... if you use those JSON-LD relationships would cannot eliminate did documents, or you need to encode the relationship in the identifier itself... for example:

```
did:example:123/assertion/kid => jwk+json
did:example:123/assertion=> jwk-set+json
```

by treating it as an alterative encoding of `application/jwk-set+json` or `application/cose-key-set`.

However, there is no media type fragment processing directive
that would enable dereferencing the known key set content types, listed above.

> ##### Comment on OIDC

Author: See a similar section of the W3C draft: https://w3c.github.io/vc-jwt/#key-discovery

It's a mess, because of mistakes made in DID Core... So we expect anything taking a dependency on DIDs to have similar sections of their spec.

Reviewer 2: I think `.well-known/jwt-issuer` defined in SD-JWT VC draft is more relevant here. https://vcstuff.github.io/draft-terbu-sd-jwt-vc/draft-terbu-oauth-sd-jwt-vc.html#name-jwt-issuer-metadata

Author: fwiw, I plan to add that to the vc-jwt draft when it lands as well...

However, I disagree that drafts of "VCs" are more relevant than OIDC, which has massive adoption.

For well known token types, such as `id_token` or `access_token`.

> `iss` MUST be a URL, and it MUST have keys discoverable in the following way:

Reviewer 2: I don't think there is a need to copy what is already defined in OIDC.Core and rfc6749. just pointing to the related sections in those specs is sufficient.

      "e": "AQAB",
      "kid": "aMIKy_brQk3nLd0PKd9ln",
      "x5t": "-xcTyx47q3ddycG7LtE6QCcETbs",
      "x5c": [
        "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"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

> If SCITT wanted to be interoperable with OIDC, we would define key dereferencing in a way that was compatible with how OIDC handles it today.

Reviewer 2: I am still catching up, but using ID Tokens/Access Tokens here intuitively seems odd. Can Issuer be a natural person authenticated by OIDC?

Author: It's an example... the point is JWTs are useless until they are profiled in a way that easier to adopt and ensures interop... thats what OIDC did for JWT, what will SCITT do for signed statements about software artifacts? 

This is probably not conveyed well, and possibly more directly to the working group than readers of the draft... I suspect this whole section will need several iterations to get right.

#### Dereferencing Public Keys

`kid` is always present in the protected header.

If `iss` is also present, `kid` MUST be a relative URL to `iss`,
otherwise `kid` MUST be an absolute URL that starts with `iss`.

`id` = `kid` if `iss` is undefined, or `iss` + `#` + `kid` when `iss` is defined.

See also [draft-ietf-cose-cwt-claims-in-headers](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cose-cwt-claims-in-headers/).

```
dereference = (id: string, accept: content_type = 'application/jwk+json') =>
publicKeyJwk (of content type application/jwk+json).
```

> For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when DIDs are used:
```

They MAY update their DID manifest, for instance to refresh their signing keys or algorithms, but they SHOULD NOT remove or change any prior keys unless they intend to revoke all Signed Statements that are registered as Transparent Statements issued with those keys.
This DID appears in the Issuer protected header of Signed Statements' Envelopes, while the version of the key from the manifest used to sign the Signed Statement is written in the `kid` header.

`kid` MUST either be an absolute URL,
or a relative URL. Relative URL MUST be
relative to an `iss` value. When relative URL is used,
`iss` MUST also be present in the protected header.

Resolving `kid` MUST return an identity document of a registered content type (a set of public keys).

> In the case of `kid` being an absolute DID URL, the identity document is called a DID Document,

Reviewer 3: nit: linebreak on sentences across the PR

Author: fix it editorial
